Or here's the last problem from the problems that got the three batteries for resistors.
A few questions here.
First one find the current in each resistor.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is to label the current over here.
Let's call this the current.
I don't know what's going to happen here.
Let's assume that the current here is going like in this direction going up near the junction and then
maybe the current.
I don't know maybe I'm going to go down here call this the current Aitu.
Next thing I can do right down the junction rule for the junction over here it says whatever is flowing
into the junction has to be what's going out now be a little careful here there's two currents flowing
in the way I have it labeled.
All right.
There's I plus the current I want in this first branch and then that must be equal to the current flowing
out Aitu.
All right that's going to be my equation 1 3 unknown's I need at least two more equations so let's go
ahead and write some loop rules for the loop rules make them start down over here at this point.
Let's do the outer loop.
All right if I do the outer loop what am I going to get.
Well first thing I get is Plus 8.
Call this equation 2.
I cross a battery in the direction of the current then I get a voltage drop equal to 1 multiplied by
the current.
Then I get a voltage gain because I'm crossing that battery plus four and I get another voltage drop
two times the current.
And then after I switch I go to the outer branch and I'm going to get another voltage drop given by
six times the current flowing through it.
Aitu is equal to zero.
That's equation too.
Let's maybe simplify this if I can combine the eight and the for what else.
Combine both of those.
Both of these are multiplied by I can combine both of those.
So equation 2 can look like this.
It's 12 minus three times I and minus six times I.
That equals zero.
So this will really be the equation too that I'm going to use.
And we need at least one more.
Now when I'm going to do a mini choose this inner loop over here.
All right again the first four terms are going to look exactly the same right.
So you're gonna have eight minus a voltage drop across the one ohm resistor Plus the voltage gain of
that other battery minus the voltage drop across that 2 ohm resistor.
Again I could have combined both of those resistors because they're in series with each other.
But that's OK for now.
Now I'm going to go down this middle branch here.
Now you got to be careful now I'm going across a resistor in the opposite direction of the current.
So there is a voltage gain equal to two times the current one.
And then again I'm going to cross a battery now I'm going from the high potential to the lower potential.
So there is a voltage drop given by four volts and I go back to where I start and that's equal to zero.
Now let's simplify some things I have plus for here I have minus four here.
Again you can combine both of those again.
So this equation 3 will simplify to eight minus three times I plus two times one equals zero.
So that's equation 3.
So now what I'm going to do I'm going to do the same steps I did previously.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to isolate the current Aitu from equation 2 and I'm going to isolate
the current one from equation 3.
If you do that here you're going to get that Aitu.
So I bring it on the other side and then you divide through by six.
So you should get two gives me two minus.
I have over two.
There's an important equation for us.
I might end up substituting this in the junction rule in a minute.
And from this bottom equation again you do the same thing you isolate what the current one is.
I won simply going to be equal to what should I do here.
I'm going to bring everything on the other side so I'm going to get three over two multiplied by and
minus four.
So here's my equation for I.
Again this gets a little bit tedious but in the end it's pretty straightforward algebra.
Now both of these expressions here I can then I'd like to go back and I substitute things into the junction
rule and once I do that the only unknown is going to be the current I let me go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to get I instead of won.
I substitute I won by this expression so you get three halfs I minus four.
And that must be equal to two minus I over two.
All right now you group all the terms of the I's on one side you group all the other terms on the other
side.
So you get six over here.
What I end up doing here so you get one plus 1.5 when I bring this on the other side I get another half.
So you should get two so three times I won or three times I'd rather.
So you're automatically left with now at the current.
I must be equal to 2 amps.
OK.
Again that's the current everywhere here.
So this is two amps.
Two amps over here two amps going into that junction over here.
All right now let's go ahead now we can substitute our expression back into both of these equations
in the blue boxes so we can find what the currents I want and I to our let's go ahead and do that.
So you get that the current one now is going to be three over two multiplied by two minus four.
And we get get mine is one ups you have minus 1 amp.
What does that tell you.
That simply tells me that my guess was wrong.
It actually should be opposite to this.
So let me go ahead fix it now just so I have it in the right direction.
So actually if I switch it and I make the arrow kind of going in the proper direction that means that
this current now is 1 amp.
So that tells me all right how about the current I to I to is simply equal to two times minus two over
two.
That gives me one amp so that when I did guess correctly and this one is also equal to 1 amp.
Let's go ahead now and make sure this is correct if it's correct.
We should calculate that the voltage between both of those points has to be the same.
Doesn't matter on the path that I take.
Let's go ahead and do this path right down the middle.
If I choose this path what do I get.
Well I'm going to get a voltage drop given by two multiplied by one that's the current.
And then I get a voltage drop of hopes of four when I crossed the battery.
So I get a voltage drop of six volts when I go from this point to that point.
How about now when I go on the outside when I go on the outside while there's only one resistance and
the voltage drop is six multiplied by one.
Look at I get minus six volts.
Actually you can also check this branch over here if you go all the way on the right branch you're also
going to get negative six volts.
OK.
So that works out.
We've got all our currents we've actually solve for this first part done and next part the power supplied
by each source of M.F. are going to go in the other page and figure this out.
And go back to the circuit now we want to find the power supplied by each DMF source we have here we've
got an 8 volt battery so I'll start with that one the power from the evil battery simply the voltage
multiplied by the current flowing through it eight multiplied by 2 gives me 16 watts.
How about the four volt battery.
Oh there's two four volt battery.
Let's call this one number one.
Let's call this one here.
Number two now the power supplied by this one to the voltage multiplied by the current.
Very easy four multiplied by two gives me eight watts How about the power in this one now you've got
to be careful with this one.
Look what happens.
The currents flowing opposite.
So actually the power for this one for volts.
Number two again it's v times.
I again you get four times two.
Oh you don't get four times two.
I am going way too fast here.
The current flowing through it is only one.
So that's four watts.
However we're going to be a little bit careful with this one right because the currents opposite.
Let's go ahead and I'll explain this in just a minute.
Let's find all the power dissipated in these resistors.
So we've got the power dissipated in any resistor remember equations.
The value of the resistance multiplied by the current squared.
So the power dissipated in the 1 ohm resistor.
It's one multiplied by the current squared.
We get four watts the power dissipated and the 2 ohm resistor it's two multiplied by two squared.
That gives me 8 watts the power dissipated in this other two ohm resistor.
So again I'm going to call that number one call this guy here.
Number two the power dissipated in this two ohm resistor the value of r is too and the current is one.
So you get 2 watts and the last one is the power dissipated in the six ohm resistor.
Well again the value of the resistance is six.
The current flowing through it is one.
So a square that you get six watts.
So let's look at everything being dissipated.
What is the total power being dissipated.
Well we get to add all these resistor powers.
Right.
So you get four plus eight plus two plus six.
Looks like we get 12 plus 8.
Gives me 20 watts However look at these we know both of those are supplying power and we get 24 watts
being supplied by both of those batteries.
However we only have 20 that's being dissipated.
And remember I want to go back now to this other case this other case here we have the current kind
of flowing in the opposite direction here.
So that is actually power being absorbed by this battery basically charging up this battery OK.
So that is basically the power or the energy transfer in the circuit.
Most of the energy is being dissipated into heat.
Some of the energy is being absorbed.
And if you add all of those up this guy this guy you're going to get our 24 Watts right here.
OK.
So you just got to be careful you got to look at the direction of the current with respect to the battery
to see whether or not it's power being supplied or it's charging the battery.